are you tired of spending way too much
time creating content do you feel like
sometimes you run out of ideas or the
ideas that you do come up with just
aren't the most creative or maybe now
you finally got in the hang of creating
Instagram reels but you still struggle
with all the other stuff that goes into
it like coming up with a hook scripting
what you're going to say thankfully you
can use generative language based AI to
help you out and that's exactly what
we're going to be talking about in
today's episode how you can use a free
tool like chat GPT to make a month's
worth of Instagram re Reals in less than
minutes now I don't think I've ever done
a training a podcast a YouTube video
anything about AI without mentioning the
following quote and that is that you
won't be replaced by AI but you will
likely be replaced by someone using Ai
and that's because like so many other
advancements in technology really it's a
tool unfortunately for us not only is
this tool free it's pretty easy to use
and pretty much anyone with an internet
access can use it and so with that in
mind in today's episode I'm going to be
sharing with you some different ways
that you can strategically use chat GPT
to help help you write things like your
hooks your scripts or even come up with
ideas for your reels I'll be giving you
some prompts that you can definitely use
on your own to create your own content
but the biggest takeaway that I want you
to have from today's episode is that
ultimately this is a tool and when you
first start using it just like any other
tool you're going to suck at it I
remember when I first got my first
iPhone which I think was like the iPhone
3 because I didn't even want to get the
iPhone one or two because I was like how
are we supposed to tap on a touch screen
how am I going to be able to T asked how
am I going to be able to touch the right
buttons but eventually I was like all
right I'll get an iPhone so I got the
iPhone 3 and that tool was new to me and
so the early days of texting on iPhone
was pretty bad I still remember when the
co-host of this podcast my mom got her
first iPod and the original iPods for
those of you who don't remember or maybe
never had one they had like a little
dial in the center and in order to turn
up the volume you would like lightly
spin your finger around the dial but I
remember when the iPod for first came
out and like my mom and dad both got one
my aunt and uncle both got one they all
got one I think for each other for
Christmas or something like that and no
one even knew how to turn up the volume
until someone accidentally swiped their
finger over that little dial and they
were like oh that's how you change it my
point is simply that any new technology
is going to be confusing it's going to
be overwhelming and you're not going to
be very good at it AI is the same thing
and the really cool thing about chat GPT
is that it can spit out new pieces of
text so unlike something like Google
where you're going to type into the
search bar and get other articles and
news reports and links to videos that
other people have previously posted that
other creators have made instead with
chat gbt you know you type into the
search bar so to speak you type into the
prompt window and you're getting a
basically new response every time it is
a generative response meaning that it is
a new response being generated from all
of the hundreds of millions of data
points and content and and all of these
articles and blogs that have been fed
into chat GPT but of course I know a lot
of you are here not because you
necessarily have never used chat GPT but
because you want to use it for your
Instagram reals so with that being said
let's hop into the actual tips and ideas
of how you can use it to create this
content and during this episode I'm
going to be giving you prompts that you
are welcome to use on your own but
before we even get into that before I
even give you these prompts I need to
give you a great piece of advice that
someone else gave me a long time ago
when I started using chat GPT and AI and
it's basically that oftentimes when we
start using AI we the humans try to
guess what the computer needs to know so
we try to tell it things like hey Chach
G PT I am trying to come up with
Instagram reals and I post about uh dog
behavior issues and I'm a dog trainer
and uh I have 300 followers and I post a
lot of reals and sometimes I post
carousels help me come up with ideas go
and we just kind of like guess at the
things that chat GPT needs to know but
chat GPT knows what it doesn't know it
knows what it needs to know and so the
thing that I do almost every time I'm
creating a new prompt or I'm starting a
new conversation let's call it with chat
PT is I ask it to ask me questions so
let me give you an example let's say I
want chat GPT to help me come up with
ideas for what to post on Instagram
instead of saying hey chat GPT help me
come up with ideas for what to post I
usually post about Instagram tips go
instead I could say chat GPT in a second
I'm going to ask you to help me come up
with more ideas for what to post on
Instagram but and this is the key but
before you give me these ideas ask me a
series of questions so that you can
better understand my goals my Instagram
strategy and what I'm seeking to get out
of these ideas and then when you press
the enter button chat GPT is going to
give you a series of questions instead
of ideas of what to post and then you
can just go through and answer those
questions kind of like it was chat GPT
interviewing you and then when you press
enter chat GPT will then be able to give
you content ideas that are way more
informed way more intelligent and way
more specific to you and your specific
needs rather than you just kind of
guessing telling chat gbt what you hope
it needs to know but I understand
sometimes when you're just getting
started it's easier if someone just kind
of gives you a prompt and so in today's
episode I will definitely be giving some
prompts to you but again if you want to
take your chat GPT usage to the next
level the real key is having it do all
the work by asking you the questions of
what it needs to know okay so idea
number one of how chat GPT can help you
come up with a month's worth of
Instagram reels in probably less than a
half hour is it can help you come up
with ideas and your prompt for chat GPT
could be something as simple as I need
help coming up with ideas for Instagram
reals the ideas should relate to rock
climbing and within the rock climbing
Niche I usually post about rock climbing
tips for beginners rock climbing gear
rock climbing memes and rock climbing
quotes if you put that into chat GPT and
of course replace the word rock climbing
with whatever your specific Niche or
industry is you will get post ideas you
could even TCH out GPT to give you a
specific number you could say give me 10
ideas give me five ideas give me 30
ideas you could specifically tell it to
come up with ideas that would be highly
engaging for whoever your target
audience is so I need help coming up
with ideas for Instagram reels that
would be highly engaging for women over
the age of 45 you could tell it that you
need ideas that are original and that
are rarely or hardly ever talked about
on Instagram and I think it's important
to note at this point in case you
haven't heard it before I think everyone
always says this when they're talking
about AI it's not perfect I like to
think of it as a rough draft I like to
think of it as putting pencil to paper
so that I can have something written
down I can kind of get the juices
flowing I would never recommend using
exactly what chat GPT gives you for your
scripts or for your ideas but it can
definitely give you a great kind of push
or a great boost especially if you're
struggling with one of these areas also
don't just blindly trust any facts that
chat GPT gives you because again it's
chat gpt's job to give you information
and so if no information exists
sometimes the AI will invent information
in order to satisfy the request that you
gave it and so I've heard plenty of
horror stories of people even writing
scientific papers and citing things that
didn't exist sharing statistics that
were totally made up because they were
using chat GPT to help them write these
papers so just always do your due
diligence and make sure you double check
everything that chat GPT tells you the
second way that you could use chat GPT
to help you come up with more content
make more content in less time make 30
days of content in just 30 minutes is to
have chat GPT take what you have already
done what you've already posted the
reels you've already made and create
either new versions or modified versions
of the existing posts you've made so
there's a few different ways that you
could do this but one way that I like to
do it is I like to oftentimes title at
least like for myself the different
reals I'm posting so that this is the
real about hashtags are dead this is the
real about trending Audi this is the
real about whatever other Instagram tip
I'm posting about that day and so I have
all these different like titles in my
notes I have all these different titles
for the actual file of the real I will
take those titles put them into chat GPT
and say something along the lines of hey
chat GPT can you please help me come up
with 10 real ideas that are different
ways of saying what these titles are
already talking about and so that way
you're not constantly having to come up
with new ideas or even having to have ai
come up with these new ideas instead you
can have ai create new versions
refreshed versions of content that
you've already posted in the past I do
this all the time I especially love
doing this with my best content so I'll
go back to whatever my best posts were
from two three months ago I'll put him
into chat GPT I'll put the titles I
should say into chat GPT and I'll ask it
to do what we were just talking about
which is come up with new versions come
up with refreshed ways of phrasing this
and basically I now have a bunch of new
post ideas but really it's the same
thing as before just with a different
package with a different bow on top and
I know it's likely going to do well with
my audience this time because it did
well in the past the third way that you
can have chat gbt help you come up with
30 reels in less than 30 minutes is to
have it help you write your hooks to
bring up the number three again I guess
I'm sticking with a theme for this one
hooks are essentially the first 3
seconds of your real it's whatever's
going on in those first 3 seconds it
could be the words you're saying it
could be the phrase it could be an
expression it could be the editing like
maybe your video is really going to like
zoom in or zoom out very quickly at the
beginning maybe there's going to be like
a video effect like a transition or
something placed on the beginning maybe
there's an audio effect like a popping
noise or like breaking glass that's
going to grab people's attention
essentially a hook is whatever is the
opening of your reel the beginning of
your reel that is intended to grab
people's attention and in my opinion the
hook is the most important part of your
entire reel without a strong hook it
doesn't matter how good the rest of your
content is no one's going to watch the
real if your hook doesn't grab people's
attention they're not going to watch
second four five six so I would spend a
lot of time especially if you're someone
who struggles with views and struggles
with engagement I would spend a lot of
time I would spend a lot of energy and
effort refining Your Hooks and working
on your delivery working on your ability
to stop someone's scroll and grab their
attention because without it all the
rest of your work is kind of for nothing
because it's not going to get viewed or
seen there are those rare reels that can
do really well without a strong hook but
the vast majority of them are going to
need something strong something
attention grabbing something bold
something in your face at the beginning
or at least something that's different
from the normal in order to pattern
interrupt and stop someone scroll so
that they actually watch the full video
and the thing is I don't know about you
but I know I'm not a crazy copyright
genius like I'm not awesome at writing
headlines I'm not awesome at coming up
with hooks necessarily it's something
I've definitely gotten a lot better at
over the years but especially early on I
had no clue what I was doing with hooks
so I wish that 5 years ago I could use
chat GPT to help me come up with hooks
you could quite literally take the
content that were planning on posting
let's say that you are a cake baker and
you are teaching people some unique
technique for frosting their cake I
don't know you could put your script or
at least your bullet points or your
ideas for your reel into chat GPT just
copy and paste it and then say you know
this is the idea that I have this is the
script that I have For an upcoming reel
and I want to craft an attention
grabbing hook to be placed at the
beginning of this reel the hook should
be one sentence or less and should be
rather rather bold or in your face in
order to stop someone's scroll and grab
their attention if you put that into
chat GPT along with the actual bullet
points or the script that you had
planned out for the real I promise you
chat GPT is going to come up with an
awesome hook for you to use one thing
that I do think is important when you
are prompting chat GPT to help you write
hooks is to think about what emotional
state do you want your viewer to be in
when they're watching your real and
maybe you've never thought about this
before but most likely when someone's
watching your real if they're truly cap
ated they're going to be feeling things
like maybe excitement or anger or
curiosity or frustration or happiness or
energy or enthusiasm whatever it is you
intend them to be feeling based off of
your content or your planned content
when you tell chat GPT that especially
when you tell it in the context of
Writing Your Hooks it's going to be able
to write a better hook because if I am
let's say sharing an unpopular opinion
or a new discovery a new fact about
Instagram that's going to surprise some
people then it's important for me to
tell chat GPT that I want the hook to
stir up that emotion or to at least
relate to that emotion of surprise or
confusion or being caught off guard
rather than being angry or rather than
being excited all righty idea number
four for you to be able to make 30
Instagram reels in 30 minutes or less is
you can use Chachi BT to literally write
your entire script for your real now
here's the thing on Instagram the
algorithm above all else it values watch
time but the challenge is it's tough for
people to watch long form content at
least currently on Instagram it's
starting to become more of the norm on
Tik Tok and it's kind of always been the
norm here on YouTube and on podcast but
on Instagram we're used to short content
we're used to stories that are 15
seconds we're used to short videos in
the feed we're not really used to long
form content even with Instagram reals
and when I say long form I mean longer
than 30 seconds and so that's why
usually on Instagram reals the content
that does the best is typically the
shortest the shorter content usually is
going to get more views it's going to
get more shares it's going to have a
higher watch time and that's because
most people struggle to make a 37 second
video that's very engaging and keeps
people watching the entire time
especially because they're fighting
against like I said the user habits of
the Instagram population which is used
to watching and consuming those really
really short videos and so the skills of
Storytelling and copywriting and script
development play a role into making
engaging content for Instagram reals
because if you're someone who wants what
we all truly want which is that our
audience knows us they trust us they
value US they appreciate us well then
you're probably going to want to create
content that's longer than four or 5
Seconds right but then we have to walk
that line of how do I create longer
content that is still engaging and like
I said most of us aren't these amazing
copywriters and so that's where chat GPT
that's where AI can kind of come into
into play and help us out you could give
chat GPT a prompt to basically write
your entire scripts for you something
like please assist me in writing scripts
for Instagram reels each script needs to
begin with a hook and needs to be less
than 60 seconds in length I will be the
only person speaking in the Reel and I
will be speaking directly to the camera
each reel should end with a call to
action that relates to the post telling
my audience to like the post save the
post share the post comment on it Etc
please write me scripts for The
Following topics and then you could give
chat GPT the normal topics that you post
about or brilliant idea you could use
the ideas that chat GPT gave you earlier
and just copy and paste them so now
you're having chat GPT not only come up
with the ideas but also come up with
scripts for each of those ideas again I
do want to remind you that you're going
to get much better results if you're
having chat GPT ask you questions rather
than just feeding it prompts but I also
did want to share these prompts with you
because it's kind of like a quick way to
get an easy result from chat without
having to put in any extra work of like
answering the questions and I also think
it's important to note that with AI the
better prompts you give it aka the
better input that you put in the better
output you're going to get out the
better results you're going to get the
better scripts are going to be written
again remember that whole conversation
we had earlier about you know guessing
what chat GPT needs I just rattled off a
bunch of different things that I guessed
it might need to know like it might need
to know that the Reel is going to be 60
seconds it might need know that it's
going to start with a hook it probably
needs to know that it's going to end
with a call to action but there's also
plenty of important information that I
clearly didn't involve in that prompt
and so that prompt could be improved
like I didn't tell chat GPT what my tone
is I didn't tell chat GPT how long I
like my sentences to be I didn't tell
chat GPT kind of like if I wanted a
story to be embedded into my real
because I'm doing some storytelling
right there's so many other factors that
can play into our reals and that allow
us to differentiate ourself from each
other and so you have a few options you
can either write better prompts you can
have chat GPT ask you questions that it
needs to know to help it write better
prompts for itself or you can take these
scripts that chat GPT is giving you like
I said earlier as kind of like a rough
draft right it's going to give you a
sample script but then you're going to
add your own spice you're going to add
your own flare it's going to give you a
breast of chicken but then it's on you
to actually season it and prepare it in
the way you like typically I don't rely
on chat GPT to write my entire scripts
for me I do use chat GPT when I am doing
a lot of like brand content or when I'm
doing user generated content for brands
that I'm working with because oftentimes
they're giving me these very detailed
prompts of hey make sure you include
this in the video make sure you talk
about this make sure you talk about this
and so oftentimes I'll feed it into chat
GPT to get me started on the script but
when I'm writing my scripts for my
Instagram reals I rarely start with
Chachi BT I usually end with chat GPT so
after I've written a script I'll put it
into chat GPT and then tell chat GPT to
make it more concise make it more
refined make it more specific make it
more Punchy or attention grabbing and
that way I'm not just relying on my own
script writing ability I'm having it
kind of like proof r or even improved by
AI the fifth and final way that you can
use the free tool the free artificial
intelligence chat GPT to help you come
up with 30 reels in less than 30 minutes
is in regards to your captions and
there's kind of two things that we're
going to do here we're going to flip
them back and forth the first is of
course you can use chat GPT to help
write your caption so you can use some
of the prompts that we've already been
talking about you can use some of the
techniques that we've already been
talking about prompting chat GPT to help
you for example write a three sentence
caption based off of the following
script for an Instagram reel or you can
use your existing captions and this is
this is what I really like to do is take
the existing captions that I've already
posted on Instagram especially the
captions that are a little bit longer or
that have like a lot of like value maybe
a story embedded in them take those
existing captions copy them and paste
them into chat GPT and then I can tell
chat GPT to do a few things I could tell
chat GPT to rewrite this in a different
style because maybe I'm going to just
reuse that caption on another post I
could tell chat PT to take this caption
and turn it into a script for an
Instagram reel I could tell chat GP to
take this short caption and expand on it
or vice versa I could tell to take a
long caption and basically summarize it
and condense it into the shortest
version possible truly the possibilities
with chat GPT and with AI are Limitless
so I want to encourage you if you're
feeling overwhelmed to just start
experimenting with AI start
experimenting with uh these different
tools start experimenting with chat GPT
to try to figure it out and see how you
can use it in your business it will
definitely save you time it will
definitely save you headache it will
definitely save you the energy of being
Crea cretive and coming up with new
ideas all the time because you can
literally use it to come up with new
ideas or to reinvent and reconfigure
ideas that you have already had in the
past I hope by now you can clearly see
how you can create 30 reels in less than
30 minutes using chat TT but if you're
someone who you're still not quite
growing on Instagram like it's not
working the reals just aren't getting
the views they feel they deserve there's
two previous episodes that we posted
just a few weeks ago that I highly
encourage you go check out one of them
is called how to grow on Instagram
without
so if you're someone who is just like
tired of reals not working and you want
to learn the facts which are the
carousels and photos are actually
performing very very well if not even
better sometimes and they're way easier
to create than reals go watch that video
that will be a total game changer for
how you think about Instagram content
and if you're someone who is still kind
of getting your footing on Instagram and
today was helpful but you kind of feel
like you need to go back a few steps I
encourage you to watch another recent
episode that we did which is how to
actually grow on Instagram in 2023 and
even heading into 2024 go back and watch
that episode they should be linked they
might have popped up on the cards up
here they'll be linked down in the show
notes as well thank you so much for
watching today I'll see you next
[Music]
time